# hama0013.github.io
surveillance camera over sewage pipe
Why I have started this project?

In December 2018, at the first advent, I placed my Christmas lights, shaped of a reindeer with trailer in my garden, located behind my house, in front of the back door of my house. This is the procedure I do every year. But at this day it was different: Typically I connect it over a programmable timer power connector switch to a power connector port, located at the outside wall near the back door. Near this door my kitchen window is located, where I can see the lights when it turns on at 5 pm. It is programmed to turn off at midnight. But at half past 10 pm., I can‘t see the light from the window. I opened the door and checked the programmable switch. All was ok – possibly a cable defect of the cable extension to the Christmas lights or the fuse is burned???... - Damn! The complete reindeer with its trailer is not there...It was stolen!!! The thieves should burn in hell forever!!!! I do not know why anybody steals a used Christmas light with costs of less than 30 € for a new one….. However, I swear for myself – this should never happen again without notice or without recorded pictures of the thief. I‘ve searched for surveillance cameras but seen very fast: Good ones are very expensive(>250€) and cheap ones will not fulfill my requirements. But I‘m playing since a long time with RaspberryPi projects with camera...Why not DIY? (Do It Yourself)

I‘ve searched for existing projects and found „Motion“. This sounds very interesting – Installed ... and I was surprised and impressed about the possibilities and quality. But I missed a good and easy to use frontend. Doing on my own would be possible but then I found „MotioneyeOS“. This was really great and all what I want/need. For watch and configure, a simple browser with network/internet access is needed and additionally a App for android is available – really great!!! All possibilities for notification are available, masking of non control areas and possibilities for controlling of GPIO-pins….WOW!!! The only thing that I miss, now, is a good housing for the camera an the RaspberryPi. I do own a 3D printer but I know, the material that I print is not weather(sun, rain, heat, cold…) resistant and also not aging resistant. But then I had the idea about using sewage pipes. These are aging resistant , weather resistant, absolutely water proven and very cheap. Handling with tools like drills, saw and glue are possible and easy, because it‘s PVC or similar plastic. So, I bought some tubes and tube end covers, an acryllic glass plate(base plate for mounting RaspberryPi), some PVC-glue(glue a guiding rail inside the tube), a PG-screw(for water resistant cable input) and a spout for mounting the camera lens.
